https://partner.booking.com/en-us/help/commission-invoices-tax/invoices/paying-your-invoices

Paying your invoices
Updated 1 month ago | 9 min read
Save this page
We email our commission invoices to all partners the first week of every month. This invoice reflects the commission for all completed reservations for the previous month.

In this article

Understanding your invoices
Paying your invoices
Checking or updating your current payment method
Changing your invoicing language
Corrections to your invoice
Status of your invoice
Understanding your invoices
Commission invoices are posted on the Extranet under Finance, in the Invoices tab. They’re also emailed to the address found in Account settings.

Your property is invoiced for all reservations completed in the previous month. If a guest doesn’t show up for their booking, you have 48 hours after check-out to mark them as a no-show, and you won’t be invoiced for the booking. Read more about what reservations are included in your invoices.

You can also find your current and past invoices on the Extranet by clicking Finance, then Invoices.

Be advised that partners from certain areas might receive invoices for VAT/GST in a separate document.


Learn more about invoices with multiple currencies.
Paying your invoices
Paying your invoice can differ based on your selected payment method on the Extranet. The three main ways of paying invoices are:

Direct debit – payment will be directly debited from the account you provided in the Bank details tab, under Finance. Invoices will be marked as paid on the day we send the payment request to your bank. If the direct debit fails, the invoice will appear overdue. The invoice will then have to be paid via bank transfer. You can find our bank details by going to the Extranet’s Finance page, in the Financial overview tab, under Payment information. To check why the payment failed, contact your bank.
Bank transfer – Booking.com's bank details are included in the invoice under the due date. Don’t forget to include your property ID and invoice number as the payment reference – they’re necessary for us to identify your payment and process it correctly.
Online payment or payment option through a payment service provider (PSP) – this is available for some partners depending on location. If this method is available to you, sign in to the Extranet, go to the Finance page, select the invoice you want to pay under the Invoices tab, and click the button for it.
If you’re located in Brazil, there are two additional ways of paying your invoices:

Boleto – you can pay your invoice through Boleto with a barcode. Go to the Invoices tab under Finance, and find the Commission document. Underneath, you’ll find a Boleto link.
QR Code Pix – go to the Invoices tab under Finance and select the invoices you want to pay, including any available credit notes. Click Proceed to payment, then Continue to Pix. Open your mobile banking app with your registered Pix key and choose Pay with Pix. Scan or copy and paste the QR code. You’ll have up to 15 minutes to complete the payment. If you start the payment and leave the screen, you’ll need to wait 15 minutes to generate a new QR code.
If you’re located in Argentina, Chile, or Colombia and have opted in to the bank transfer payment method, you can also pay via Dlocal:

Dlocal – when using this payment method, you’ll be directed to pay via bank transfer. To process the payment, you’ll need to enter the following: your property ID for the Booking.com client number, the name of your property, account holder name, account number, email, invoice number, amount, and bank from a drop-down menu. Once you enter this info, you’ll be redirected to your online banking page where you’ll need to specify if you have a primary user account or a corporate account. Follow all the steps to complete the bank transfer via your banking account. Don’t use links that you’ve pre-saved with Dlocal – this won’t work with the new invoice and may prevent the payment from going through.
Find the different payment methods available globally in Finance, in the Financial overview tab, under Payment information.

All invoices contain the payment steps you need to follow and whether any payment needs to be made under the Payment Due date.

Stripe Users, Hybrid BT, and Hybrid 2.0 BT receive an invoice with the gross amount of the reservations. A separate commission invoice will be issued, and then payment is due to Booking.com.

It can take approximately seven business days for received payments to reflect on the Extranet, so an invoice may stay marked as unpaid/overdue a few days after you’ve paid it. You don’t need to send us proof of payment unless our Finance team asks for it.

You can also learn what to do if you’re on the multiple property payment plan.

Checking or updating your current payment method
To check your current payment method and bank details, sign in to the Extranet, click Finance, and select Bank details or Financial settings. You’ll be able to see the details of the bank account where you receive payouts, and if you pay by direct debit, the bank account from which you make payments.

If you make your payments via direct debit, you can update your current payment method or bank details by following these instructions:*

Sign in to the Extranet
Click Finance and select either Bank details or Financial settings
Click Edit bank details on the Bank details page
For any questions about your payment method, message us via the Extranet inbox. Select the topic Invoices and commission and the subtopic Other. An agent will get back to you with information on payment methods available in your country, such as direct debit, online payments, or local payment providers.

*This isn’t possible for those in Slovenia, Slovakia, Switzerland, Singapore, Sweden, Denmark, or Norway – in which case, there are forms available on the Extranet.

Changing your invoicing language
Your invoices and other financial documents are generated based on the language setting of either your invoicing contact or your primary point of contact.

To change the language of your financial documents:

Sign in to the Extranet
Click the Account icon in the top right corner of the page, then choose Contacts
If you have a contact for Invoices, click Edit and change the language. Click Save changes
If you don’t have a contact for Invoices, click Edit under Primary point of contact and change the language. Click Save changes
Keep in mind that the new language setting will be applied only to documents generated in the future. Existing documents will stay the same.

Corrections to your invoice
If we send you an invoice with the wrong amount, we won’t send a new invoice. The original invoice will remain valid and we’ll issue a separate document with the amount to be deducted or added to the original invoice. This will either be a credit note or a debit note.

Keep in mind that credit notes can’t be refunded to your bank account – you can use them to pay future invoices. Read more on how credit notes work. If you receive a debit note, follow the instructions specified in it.

If you accidentally pay the same invoice twice or the wrong amount, the extra amount will be deducted from your next invoice. If you’d rather receive a refund, message us.

Status of your invoice
When checking the status of your invoices, you’ll see one of the following labels:

Paid – the invoice has been paid in full.
Due by month/day/year – the invoice hasn’t been paid yet and is due for payment. Unpaid (or due) invoices are visible under Outstanding balances
Overdue (due by month/day/year) – the invoice is overdue and may lead to account suspension from our platform if not paid.
You’ve paid X of X – you’ve only paid part of your invoice. Or, if you requested to use a credit note for an invoice, you’ll also see the remaining balance under Total amount due. Make sure the invoice is paid in full by its due date.
Written off – because you didn’t pay on time, your property was permanently closed on our platform. Once we receive full payment for all outstanding invoices and they’re marked as Paid, you’ll be able to reopen your property listing or discuss reopening conditions. Learn more about how to reopen your property.